h1 Public Art In Los Angeles County: An Editorial

	h2 Embodied 

	h3 by Alison Saar / (2014)

Artist Alison Saar has created a monumental figurative bronze sculpture for the exterior plaza to serve as a companion piece to the historic Hall of Justice. In her own words, Saar says of the artwork, “Embodied represents the spirit of Justice. She is not a typical depiction, for she wields no sword, wears no blindfold. Her lucid eyes are blind to creed and color. She is all seeing in issues of truth and equity. She weighs and balances the book of the law and equates it to freedom and peace, as affirmed by the dove taking flight from her upheld hand.”

The figure’s facial features are a composite of many ethnicities, according to Saar representing the diverse populations of Los Angeles County. Draped over one arm, she holds a long braid
meant to symbolize the coming together of the many facets of the Los Angeles County District Attorney's Office and the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department to ensure a secure and peaceful
environment. Imprinted on her dress are over 200 words gathered from conversations with staff of the Sheriff’s Department, the District Attorney’s Office, schools and courthouses. Saar also
spent time in Grand Park downtown and asked a random sampling of people for their input. More than a dozen languages are included on the sculpture.

Saar and a team of over 30 artisans, bronze casters and engineers were involved in the making of the artwork. From start to finish, the team transformed a 12 inch clay model to a life and a
half scale bronze sculpture weighing over one ton. Embodied was made entirely within Los Angeles County, including Decker Studios bronze foundry in North Hollywood and Exclusive Welding in La Crescenta.

	h2 Pentimento

	h3 by Erin Shie Palmer (year unknown)

Pentimento adorns a wall in the garden area between two of the LA County Coroner’s buildings. Seven years in the making, the artwork consists of 300 hand-blown glass bells in varying shades of blue. For visitors and employees taking a mind-clearing stroll, Pentimento offers the opportunity for a more focused meditative moment.

The artist drew upon the inspiration of shrines and wishing walls. She chose bells for their central role in many cultures’ rituals, from the joyous to the mournful. Not only do the bells’ hues subtly vary, but each one creates a distinct note when the wind blows. The tranquil sound they make collectively is meant to remind visitors of moving water, a life-giving force with particular resonance in such a setting.

“I seek to heighten awareness of place,” Palmer has written, adding that she aims to make “visible that [which] exists beneath the threshold of the readily apparent.”


	h2 Untitled (Whitter Narrows Sculptures)

	h3 by Benjamin Dominguez (early 1960s)

At dusk, a strange silhouette seems to emerge from Legg Lake. Its spiny back looms 20 feet long and its neck stretches toward the darkening horizon. From a distance a mother's call grows more urgent with the descending darkness, but her children do not respond. Their young bodies cling to the sea creature's back; they shriek from the animal's tail. But there's no need for alarm -- the kids are having too much fun to mind their mother who insists its time to go home. The creature wears a friendly smile and its head is covered in a colorful cap. Its surface is smooth, made of cement and glazed with paint. It is one of numerous sculptures of sea creatures that have called the Whittier Narrows Parks their home for well over half a century. They are part of a collection of site-specific cement park installations by Mexican artist Benjamin Dominguez.

These fantastic sea creatures have played an important historic role in integrating the once newly-created Whittier Narrows Parks into the contested landscape. They attracted visitors and potential residents to the newly developed housing communities during the dawn of Southern California's post war suburbanization. The creation of these parks transformed the area from an untamed floodplain that nestled numerous immigrant communities, to a network of cemented channels; curated parks with newly demarcated cities along its perimeter.

As the entire region was being re-imagined and reconstructed, Benjamin Dominguez's sea creature sculptures invited visitors into a unique kind of oasis, one that for decades has provided thousands of people with respite from the urban environment, while infusing the landscape with magic. Their maker, Benjamin Dominguez, a trained artist from Mexico City, knew how to mold the materials that have shaped much of the modern environment's hard surfaces into visions of fantasy.

	h2 Inverted Landscapes 
	
	h3 by Elena Manferdini (2015)

Graduate Program Chair Elena Manferdini’s “Inverted Landscapes” is among the 38 outstanding public arts projects honored by Americans for the Arts created in 2015 through the Public Art Network (PAN) Year in Review program, the only national program that specifically recognizes the most compelling public art. The works were chosen from 260 entries across the country and will be recognized today at Americans for the Arts’ 2016 Annual Convention in Boston.

“It is rare to walk away from a job knowing you have made a difference in peoples’ lives and that as an artist and architect you have been part of a project that changed the way people face public service in a moment of need,” says Manferdini. “The Zev Yaroslavsky San Fernando Family Center represented this unique occasion, when you are asked to share your design with others, and make it truly a public experience. It has been humbling to have had the chance to work with the phenomenal team of LA County Art Commission, the unstoppable energy of the Supervisor Zev Yaroslavsky staff and all the designers, architects, engineers and contractors that day in day out made this happen.”

Floating overhead in the lobby of the Zev Yaroslavsky Family Support Center is the fantastic imagery of “Inverted Landscapes”, a 12 feet x 44 feet sculpture created by Manferdini.

Transitioning between easily identified flora and fauna such as butterflies and ladybugs to bursts of pixelated color, the artwork is meant to shift one’s point of view. It appears to be a single sculpture. Yet is actually a combination of digitally printed imagery, three-dimensional perforated powder coated metal panels and stainless steel reflective disks. Manferdini 3D scanned flowers, leaves and insects from all angles to create the 3 dimensional imagery. Through digital manipulation, she combined the individual photos to create a flattened three-dimensional collage with enhanced vibrancy and color, giving the artwork depth and a photorealistic finish. Another artwork is located at the west side of the building at the plaza entrance. Here, Manferdini created a ceramic tile floor pattern and window treatment that anchors the design to the ground and juxtaposes clouds of hydrangeas, petals and butterflies into a skyscape.

	h2 Mystical Forest

	h3 By Christine Nguyen (2018)

For the new Sheila Kuehl Family Wellness Center, artist Christine Nguyen has designed a photo-based mural, a divider wall, a mobile sculpture, and coloring book inspired by the flora and fauna in San Fernando and the surrounding region. Mystical Forest, 13 ’x 9’, dye sublimation on aluminum panels. Portal’s Eye, 7’ x 7’ x7’, enamel painted aluminum support plate, die cut acrylic and airplane steel cable. Mystical Deer, 6’ x 10’ x 1/2”, freestanding acrylic screen.

The artwork portrays a meditative and harmonious environment which is a celebration of spirit, comfort, healing and recovery. Together, these works create a playful and inspirational imaginary world that gives a sense of wonder for the patients, visitors and staff at the facility.

I collaborated with the Los Angeles Arts Commission and the City of San Fernando on this project. Yetiweurks fabricated the hanging acrylic mobile. Fineartphotography printed the dye sublimation panels. Cooke's Crating mounted and installed the mural works and 3Form fabricated the wall divider.

	h2 PREVAILING AFFINITIES

	h3 By Kathy Taslitz (2016)

Signaling a strong sense of family and appreciation for the natural environment, Taslitz presents a bloom of 18 jellyfish as a portrait of the Manhattan Beach community. Jellyfish swim in blooms, groups of dozens or hundreds of jellyfish to help safeguard themselves from ocean predators, and is one of the reasons why the species has been able to thrive for over 700 million years around the world. During her interviews, Taslitz learned that Manhattan Beach residents value family, friends and a strong sense of community. The bulbous forms—commingling with their tentacles extended, connecting with their neighbors—are meant to embody the act of individuals and families joining to form a community. In contrast to the white polished fiberglass dome and silicone tentacles, the underside of each dome is a different color featured in the official city seal for Manhattan Beach.Taslitz and a team of over 20 artisans, metalworkers and engineers were involved in the making of the artwork. From start to finish, the team transformed two small scale models of the artworks into larger than life sculptures weighing more than 2,000 pounds.



	h2 Floating dog and Flying Cat

        h3 By Mark Lere Palmdale Animal Care Center (2016)

Artist Mark Lere’s two sculptures, Floating Dog and Flying Cat, hang overhead in the adoption lobby and gallery of the Palmdale Animal Care Center. The sculptural depictions of these animals provides visual representations of their playful nature that emphasizes the positive emotional connections between pets and humans. The forms for the artwork evolved as Lere listened to animal care staff to learn more about animal behavior and how positive body language is conveyed by animals, notably dogs and cats. Lere used this knowledge to shape the sculptures, choosing to depict instances of alertness, spontaneity and gleefulness. To help Floating Dog and Flying Cat feel like drawings executed in three dimensional space, painted aluminum frame construction and spun bonded scrim fabric, a translucent material, was utilized to create the 12 feet long by
7 feet 5 inches wide floating dog and the 18 feet long by 8 feet 5 inches wide flying cat. Lere uses a foreshortened perspective with larger heads and forepaws that reach out to the viewer as the hind legs and tails fade away into the ceilings and rafters. Both sculptures are internally lit and emit a soft warm glow reminiscent of paper lanterns. Lere has likened the sculptures to larger than life renditions of pets that float by like balloons in Thanksgiving Day Parades.



	h2 Our Shining Stars (2011)

	h3 By José Antonio Aguirre Lancaster Animal Shelter


Our Shining Stars by artist Jose Antonio Aguirre includes a series of seven individual artworks for the entrances of each building at the Lancaster Animal Shelter. Inspired by former shelter animals that have had successful adoptions, each image is surrounded by a contemporary star-burst shape that resembles the Hollywood Walk of Fame. The artwork also includes mosaic medallions in the corridor leading to the facility's central patio. The Hollywood Walk of Fame gave permission for the recognizable star motif to be reproduced. Fabricated with a combination of Byzantine and Venetian glass mosaic, the process included participation from children, teens, adults and seniors from the Antelope Valley and benefited from additional support from the Fulbright-Garcia Robles Award and the Glass Workshop of UAM-Azcapotzalco (Universidad Aut??_???noma Metropolitana) in Mexico City. The Los Angeles County Department of Animal Care and Control is one of the largest and most progressive animal control agencies in the United States. It serves more than 3,200 square miles of cities, deserts, beaches and mountains and provides animal control and rescue services 24 hours a day, seven days a week. The project was a part of Lancaster Animal Shelter renovation that included the construction of a new 3,200 square foot kennel building, a 900 square foot cat holding facility and a 2,400 square foot barn. About the Artist: José Antonio Aguirre (born in Mexico City, 1955) is a bi-national artist, hailing from the United States and Mexico. He has studied and lived outside of M?xico since 1976. He earned a Bachelor of Fine Arts degree from the School of the Art Institute of Chicago in1982, and a Master of Fine Arts at California Institute of the Arts in 1990. He has lived in California since 1986. Aguirre has mounted over 12 solo exhibitions of his paintings and works on paper, mixed media and prints and participated in over 120 group exhibitions nationally and internationally. Aguirre has designed and fabricated over 35 permanent works of public art for civic art programs, educational and private developer's projects in Southern California, Chicago and Mexico City. Throughout his art career, Aguirre has also been an installation artist, a cultural journalist for Spanish publications in Los Angeles, Austin and Chicago. For over 30 years he has established a strong reputation as a cultural worker and a visual arts educator.

	h2 Belltower

	h3 by Mark Bradford (2014)

	Bradford created an installation titled “Bell Tower” that is located on the mezzanine level of the terminal’s departures hall. The work is suspended from a skylight above the TSA security screening area, so both ticketed passengers and the general public can view it. The sculpture is modeled after a medieval bell tower, though it also resembles the kind of jumbotron seen at sports arenas. The work of art is made of 712 panels cut from salvaged plywood and posters collected from construction sites throughout L.A. Bradford is currently the subject of a major exhibition at the Hammer Museum -- “Mark Bradford: Scorched Earth,” which is the L.A. native’s first solo museum show in his hometown.

	H2 The Great Wall of Los Angeles (1977, series in continuation)

	h3 by Judith Baca and Others 

This extensive mural effort was coordinated by Judith Baca, U.C.L.A. professor of Chicano Studies, co-founder of Social and Public Art Resource Center (SPARC), and National Medal of Arts recipient (2023).  The mural was SPARC's first mural project, originally titled "The History of California," and includes conceptual and design contributions from artists, ethnologists, and scholars, as well as mural painting assistance from local youth.  According to Juan Pablo Mercado,* as of 2018 it was the largest known community mural project in the world ("Judy Baca, SPARC and a Chicana Mural Movement.” Dissertation, University of California, Los Angeles, 2018).

This mural project continues as a work-in-progress for adding future sections at the site of this North Hollywood flood control channel.  A new mural section titled "Generation on Fire" depicting freedom riders was unveiled by Baca at the Los Angeles County Museum of Art on October 26, 2023.  Additional mural sections are planned to depict California throughout the 1990s, and will be exhibited at the Los Angeles County Museum of Art through June 2, 2024 as works-in-progress.  These additional sections are anticipated to extend the mural to a full mile in length and to be completed for the Los Angeles 2028 Olympics.